packages/mimir/docs/no-useless-predicate.md, before:

# no-useless-predicate

:mag: requires type information

Detects redundant conditions that are either always true or always false.

## Rationale

This rule consists of 4 distinct checks to detect conditions that are always truthy or always falsy:

1. Expressions used as condition are checked for being always truthy or always falsy. TypeScript doesn't even try to detect if a condition always results in the same branch being chosen. This check detects when you forget to call a method or await a Promise, for example `if (checkAuthentication) {}` instead of `if (checkAuthentication()) {}`. Not using `strictNullChecks` makes this check almost useless.
2. Comparing non-nullable values with `null` or `undefined`. TypeScript already detects invalid comparisons. However, it always allows comparing with `null` or `undefined` even if the type indicates that such a value can never occur. This check is disabled without `strictNullChecks`.
3. Comparing `typeof v` with a type that can never occur. TypeScript only ensures you compare with a valid type.
4. Using `key in obj` where `key` is known to be always present in `obj`. This check is disabled without `strictNullChecks`.

## :warning: Limitations

Types like `{toString(): string}` could contain primitive values. Due to a lack of type relationship APIs this rule is currently unable to detect these cases and assumes such types to be always truthy and `typeof` to return `"object"`.

TypeScript doesn't include `undefined` in the type of index signatures (see [Microsoft/TypeScript#13778](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/13778)). This rule doesn't know whether a certain value came from an index signature. There's some special handling to treat property access in conditions as potentially `undefined`. Unfortunately there's no reliable way to do the same if the value is assigned to an intermediate variable before using it in a condition:

```ts
declare let arr: Array<Date>;

typeof arr[0] === 'object'; // correctly detected as possibly undefined
arr[0] === undefined; // correctly detected as possibly undefined

const v0 = arr[0];
v0 === undefined; // false positive: the same check as above using a variable doesn't work
```

## Examples

:thumbsdown: Examples of incorrect code

```ts
declare function returnTrue(): true;

while (returnTrue()) {} // condition is always truthy
!returnTrue() ? 'false' : 'true'; // condition is always falsy

declare function checkCondition(): boolean;

if (checkCondition) {} // condition is always truthy, forgot to call the function?

declare function isAuthenticated(): Promise<boolean>;

if (isAuthenticated()) {} // condition is always truthy, forgot to 'await' the Promise

declare var v: string | null;

v === undefined; // always falsy
typeof v === 'number'; // always falsy

declare var arr: string[];
'length' in arr; // property 'length' is always present on arrays
```

:thumbsup: Examples of correct code

```ts
while (true) {} // infinite loops with 'true' as condition are always allowed

declare function checkCondition(): boolean;

if (checkCondition()) {} // can be truthy or falsy

declare function isAuthenticated(): Promise<boolean>;

async function fn() {
  if (await isAuthenticated()) {} // 'await' your Promises
}

declare var v: string | null;

v === null;
v == undefined; // '== undefined' also includes 'null'
typeof v === 'object'; // typeof null === 'object'

declare var arr: string[];
1 in arr; // testing for existence of an index in the array
'foo' in arr; // property 'foo' could theoretically be present at runtime
```

## Further Reading

* MDN: [typeof](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/typeof)
* MDN: [truthy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Truthy) and [falsy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Falsy)

## Related Rules

* [`no-nan-compare`](no-nan-compare.md)

Commit message:

no-useless-predicate: check literal comparison
Fixes: #533

packages/mimir/docs/no-useless-predicate.md, after:

# no-useless-predicate

:mag: requires type information

Detects redundant conditions that are either always true or always false.

## Rationale

This rule consists of 5 distinct checks to detect conditions that are always truthy or always falsy:

1. Expressions used as condition are checked for being always truthy or always falsy. TypeScript doesn't even try to detect if a condition always results in the same branch being chosen. This check detects when you forget to call a method or await a Promise, for example `if (checkAuthentication) {}` instead of `if (checkAuthentication()) {}`. Not using `strictNullChecks` makes this check almost useless.
2. Comparing non-nullable values with `null` or `undefined`. TypeScript already detects invalid comparisons. However, it always allows comparing with `null` or `undefined` even if the type indicates that such a value can never occur. This check is disabled without `strictNullChecks`.
3. Comparing `typeof v` with a type that can never occur. TypeScript only ensures you compare with a valid type.
4. Using `key in obj` where `key` is known to be always present in `obj`. This check is disabled without `strictNullChecks`.
5. Comparing a literal type with itself, e.g. `true === true` or `'a' !== 'a'`. This check is disabled without `strictNullChecks`.

## :warning: Limitations

Types like `{toString(): string}` could contain primitive values. Due to a lack of type relationship APIs this rule is currently unable to detect these cases and assumes such types to be always truthy and `typeof` to return `"object"`.

TypeScript doesn't include `undefined` in the type of index signatures (see [Microsoft/TypeScript#13778](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/issues/13778)). This rule doesn't know whether a certain value came from an index signature. There's some special handling to treat property access in conditions as potentially `undefined`. Unfortunately there's no reliable way to do the same if the value is assigned to an intermediate variable before using it in a condition:

```ts
declare let arr: Array<Date>;

typeof arr[0] === 'object'; // correctly detected as possibly undefined
arr[0] === undefined; // correctly detected as possibly undefined

const v0 = arr[0];
v0 === undefined; // false positive: the same check as above using a variable doesn't work
```

## Examples

:thumbsdown: Examples of incorrect code

```ts
declare function returnTrue(): true;

while (returnTrue()) {} // condition is always truthy
!returnTrue() ? 'false' : 'true'; // condition is always falsy

declare function checkCondition(): boolean;

if (checkCondition) {} // condition is always truthy, forgot to call the function?

declare function isAuthenticated(): Promise<boolean>;

if (isAuthenticated()) {} // condition is always truthy, forgot to 'await' the Promise

declare var v: string | null;

v === undefined; // always falsy
typeof v === 'number'; // always falsy

declare var arr: string[];
'length' in arr; // property 'length' is always present on arrays

returnTrue() === true; // always truthy
```

:thumbsup: Examples of correct code

```ts
while (true) {} // infinite loops with 'true' as condition are always allowed

declare function checkCondition(): boolean;

if (checkCondition()) {} // can be truthy or falsy

declare function isAuthenticated(): Promise<boolean>;

async function fn() {
  if (await isAuthenticated()) {} // 'await' your Promises
}

declare var v: string | null;

v === null;
v == undefined; // '== undefined' also includes 'null'
typeof v === 'object'; // typeof null === 'object'

declare var arr: string[];
1 in arr; // testing for existence of an index in the array
'foo' in arr; // property 'foo' could theoretically be present at runtime

Boolean() === true;
```

## Further Reading

* MDN: [typeof](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/typeof)
* MDN: [truthy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Truthy) and [falsy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Falsy)

## Related Rules

* [`no-nan-compare`](no-nan-compare.md)
